1.	Predictive Shopping List.
Customer orders at JJ Food Service, of course, vary widely in terms of what gets purchased and when, order size, type, frequency and many other criteria. In anticipating customers’ future needs, what they needed were tailored insights based on each customer’s past order patterns. For instance, a particular restaurant might order salad greens every day, flour about every two weeks, and cooking oil once a month. “To be successful, we needed to be relevant for that week, that day, that exact point in time,” Ahmed explained.
JJ Food Service was convinced that Azure ML could help them address their needs in a very cost-effective manner. They started working with the Microsoft Azure team, first writing code for their website to capture customer behavior and then using three years of transactional data to train an Azure ML predictive model. Next, they integrated the recommendations from this model into both their call center environment and their website, thus ensuring that their phone-based customers would get the exact same recommendations (via call center representatives) as what online customers would see on their site.
The system took only three months to implement. Today, whether customers call in or log in, the system bubbles up the same predictions using its analysis of past purchases – in both cases, the order pad gets filled out in the same fashion, and automatically.

2.	Recommendations Add a More Personal Touch / Cross Sale
In addition to the predictive shopping list, customers also get recommendations for related items that they might want to order.
It is a statistical model that includes all data from consumer behavior. The learning about customers, their purchasing habits, tastes and needs, facilitates the sale of complementary products the customer uses or intends to consume.
In this way, for each segment there is a set of products to suggest – together with the best strategies to carry out this approach – so as to maximize the value of each client.
 For instance, if a fish and chips shop were to order batter, the system might ask whether they need specific spices that go along with that. Also, prior to checkout, the system reviews the overall order to determine whether the combination of items shopped indicates a need for additional products. For instance, if a fast-food restaurant orders meat, poultry, vegetables and beverages, would it also need cooking oil? Or perhaps paper cups, if their supply might be running low?
JJ Food Service estimates that these recommendations currently make up about 5% of the shopping cart. While that may not seem large – and, in fact, Ahmed expects this number to go down a bit as the system gets smarter at predicting orders even more accurately – when you consider the company’s size, this really adds up. Plus it’s a nice personal touch for customers. As Ahmed says, “The wow factor is huge. Customers are amazed that we can predict so accurately what they need.”

3.	Cluster Analysis / Customer Segmentation
It’s a Machine Learning model that allows to partition a Customer database into homogeneous segments based on behavior, in order to group individuals who are similar to each other according to certain features.
Through this analysis, individuals who resemble each other regarding demographic and purchasing behavior characteristics were grouped, which allows to generate:
•	Differentiated marketing actions.
•	Promotions, discounts or commercial activities.
•	Loyalty actions based on behavior.

4.	Customer Activation
Customer activation was approached through a set of machine learning techniques that allow, through the study of past events with behavioral characteristics associated with them, understand which of these help explain its occurrence and apply that knowledge to the future.
For those customers who are inactive and whose behavioral characteristics have resemblance to a group of active customers, the company can perform specific actions that incentivize consumption in order to reactivate these clients.

5.	Market-Basket analysis (bundle creation)
It’s an exploratory type of tool, applied to details of purchased items by customers in their transactions, in order to provide visibility into which products tend to be purchased together.
Through a series of patterns or rules which contain information about products typically bought simultaneously, bundles, promotions and product-groupings are created in order increase volume and profitability.

6.	Price Optimization
Dynamic pricing is a pricing strategy in which businesses set highly flexible prices for products or services based on current market demands. Business are able to stay competitive by changing prices based on algorithms that take into account competitor pricing, supply and demand, and other external factors.
7.	Inventory Forecasting
Inventory management concerns the fine lines between replenishment lead time, carrying costs of inventory, asset management, inventory forecasting, inventory valuation, inventory visibility, future inventory price forecasting, physical inventory, available physical space for inventory, quality management, replenishment, returns and defective goods, assortment planning and demand forecasting. Balancing these competing requirements leads to optimal inventory levels, which is an on-going process as the business needs shift and react to the wider environment. Retailer Pier 1 Imports wanted to better connect with its customers using insights and data. To do that, the company took to the cloud to pilot a predictive analytics solution based on Microsoft Azure Machine Learning and Microsoft Power BI. As a result, Pier 1 Imports may use data insights to predict which products customers will want in the future, create a dynamic website using predictive modelling and create more efficient and effective marketing campaigns. 

8.	Understand shopper engagement (browsing products and then creation of quotes) and then understand actual conversion (sale of products)

9.	Forecasting sales weekly/monthly sales

10.	Customer Churn Analysis

11.	Location Analytics
By combining demographic data like Median Income, Education Levels, Median Age and customer purchasing data such as preferences, past purchases, and online behavioral data, retailers gain a more in-depth understanding of customer needs and wants than with just past purchase data. While planning new store locations, combining this data for potential locations can give retailers insights into the best locations for new stores. Valuable insights can be gained knowing proximity to competitors, how proximity to hospitals correlates to flower sales, and how nearby sports clubs can drive athletic apparel sales.

